# Deterministic Round-Trip Example

In order to run this example, you need to be running a _Tenant Security Proxy_ (TSP) on your machine.
Check the **README.md** file in the parent directory to see how to start the TSP, if you haven't done so
yet.

Once the TSP is running, you can experiment with this example Node program. It illustrates the basics of how
to use the Tenant Security Client (TSC) SDK to encrypt and decrypt data. The example code shows two scenarios:

-   encryption and decryption of a record that you might store in a key-value store or a database, and
-   encryption and decryption of a file.

To run the example, you will need to have Node installed on your computer. Try a `node -v` to see
what version you are using. We tested the example code using v18.16.0.

If node is ready to go, execute these commands:

```bash
export API_KEY='0WUaXesNgbTAuLwn'
yarn
yarn start
```

We've assigned an API key for you, but in production you will make your own and edit the TSP
configuration with it. This should produce output like:

```bash
Using tenant tenant-gcp.
Jim Bridger
✨  Done in 2.74s.
```

The output "Jim Bridger" is printed after round-tripping encryption and decryption of a Javascript
object with that value.

When you run the example, you should see a number of INFO outputs generated by your TSP indicating
that it deriving a master key and using it for deterministic encryption.

If you would like to experiment with a different tenant, just do:

```bash
export TENANT_ID=<selected-tenant-ID>
yarn start
```

The list of available tenants is listed in the **README.md** in the parent directory.

If you set the tenant to **tenant-gcp-l** and run the node program, then compare the logs generated by the
TSP to the logs generated when you use **tenant-gcp**, you can see the difference
between using a KMS configuration that has key leasing enabled vs. one that does not.

## Additional Resources

If you would like some more in-depth information, our website features a section of technical
documentation about the [SaaS Shield product](https://ironcorelabs.com/docs/saas-shield/).
